
We decided to implement our project as a python based web application with the help of flask and jinja since with flask and jinja, we are able to make dynamic websites. Making our website dynamic was important as it allowed us to use templates; for example, we were able to use just one template ‘club.html’ for the page for all of our clubs. Our project was structured in roughly the same way as the “finance” problem set - it has a controller program called application.py where all of the logic occurred, supplementary databases to store information about the clubs, users, and reviews, and templates for the various pages. All of the templates inherited from layout.html, which served as a template that included the header to provide coherence to the website. We also had a stylesheet to give unity to the website’s styling.

In order to get the information for the clubs, which was needed to build our database of clubs, we scraped Harvard’s website, in particular, the student organization’s page (https://osl.fas.harvard.edu/student-organizations). First, this page was saved and then using regular expressions, the names of all of the clubs were found, as well as the link to the page for each given club. Then, using python’s urllib.request method, which is able to get the html for a particular webpage, we went through all of the club pages, scraping the website, email, and purpose statement of each club, again using regular expressions. We decided not to get information such as the number of members of each club and address of each club since that information was blank on the majority of pages. Finally, all of this information was saved to a csv document clubinfo.csv, which was then imported into the club database clubinfo.db. All of this was done through the scraper.py file.

After this was done, we were able to make the homepage of our website which had a list of all of the clubs linking to an individual page for each individual club. Since each individual club had different information, they all go to seperate pages, but all of the pages are built off of club.html. This allowed for one webpage template to be used for multiple clubs. On the page for each individual club, we include its pertinent information, including its purpose, email, and website (if they were available from Harvard’s website).

Then, in creating our review functionality, we decided to implement an accounts system. This is so that users who are not registered will not be able to see or post reviews, which will limit access to outsiders as well as spam reviews. Originally, we attempted to use Harvard’s login API to do this but this proved infeasible since we would’ve had to get approval from someone from Harvard administration, so instead we created our own system, modeled on the login/registration system of finance.

Now, with login done, we were ready to move on to the actual review system. We created a review form with information that we believed that people would be interested in regarding a club, for example, its workload, overall experience, leadership, etc. We also left open a space for users to write down miscellaneous thoughts about the club so that users would be able to given a fuller picture of a club. Then, we had to figure out how to display these reviews to registered users in an informative, visually appealing, and manageable manner. Similar to how the Q-guide shows graphs for what people thought of classes in terms of overall experience, difficulty, etc. as well as a comment section for what the student wanted to tell future students, we also decided to use a combination of graphs and lists of individual comments. We decided to use matplotlib, which is a python library that allows for the creation of graphs, as many of the categories from our review were ranking a club on a 1-5 scale, which would be displayed nicely on a graph. After a user clicked on a club to see its reviews, matplotlib would generate and save graphs for the applicable metrics and then these graphs would be displayed on the webpage. Also, for the workload in hours of a club, the average was displayed, and individual comments for a club were also displayed below in a table.

Finally, since the list of clubs is rather long, at over 500, we decided to implement a search functionality to our project. Our search works as follows: if there is a club that has a name which is exactly what has been searched, then the user will simply redirected to the page for that given club. Otherwise, the reader will be redirected to a page that displays all the clubs with the same first letter as the first letter which the user has searched. We decided to implement our search functionality in this matter, since even if the user were not able to get the exact match, they may find clubs similar enough to their search to be interesting to them.
