Qlub is a web-based application that is able to run on the cs50 ide. It runs in python using flask so flask and jinja will be needed. While all of the assets needed to set up and run the website, including the databases, templates, and applications, are already present, this project used several libraries which may need to be installed.

First, in order to store the databases, sqlite3 was used. This should already be installed on cs50. There are two databases: one, called clubinfo.db, has a table which stores club information (name, website, email, purpose) and a table which stores user information (username, id, hashed password), while the other, called clubreview.db, has a table for each club, for which each entry in the table in a review. In order to display the graphs for each club, the python libraries numpy and matplotlib were used. Therefore, in the ide, before starting up the website, it may be necessary to run the commands ‘pip install matplotlib’ and ‘pip install numpy’ to install those libraries.

Upon installing the required packages, it should be possible for the user to type ‘flask run’ in the folder to start up the website. Then, the user should be taken to an index page which includes a list of all of the clubs. Upon clicking on the page for any given club, the user should see the information of that club, which will include the club’s purpose, email, and website, if applicable. In addition, it will be possible to search through the list of clubs by using the search bar at the top. If the user attempts to search for a club and the exact club which the user has queried exists, the user will be redirected to that club. Otherwise, the user will be redirected a page which has a list of clubs similar to what the user has typed.

Now, the user may wish to view the reviews for a given club or to write their own review for a club. To do this, the user must first log in. If the user does not yet have an account, the user must first register for an account. After logging in, the user will be able to see the review information for any club. They will be able to see six bar graphs with submitted information about various metrics regarding the club, such as the overall experience, leadership, and culture experienced. They will also be able to see a metric about the average workload of the club as well individual written reviews. In addition, at the bottom of the page, the user will see a link to review the club. When clicked, the user will be redirected to a form where they may fill out their own review. Upon filling out that review, the user will be redirected back to the club page, and the user should see the information from their own review added to the page.

While the club list is already populated, one may at some point want to update the club list, which may be useful, for example, if Harvard were to update its student organizations list. To do so, the following must be done: First, the new clubs.html must be downloaded from Harvard’s website into the directory. Then, the scraper.py file must be run again (with urllib being installed if it is not already), and finally, the clubinfo.csv must be imported again into the clubinfo.db club table manually .

